CSS and CSS 3 assignment


Q.1 What are the benefits of using CSS?
Ans.
There are a number of benefits of CSS, including:
1) Faster Page Speed. More code means slower page speed. ...
2) Better User Experience. CSS not only makes web pages easy on the eye, it also allows for user-friendly formatting. ...
3) Quicker Development Time. ...
4) Easy Formatting Changes. ...
5) Compatibility Across Devices


Q.2 What are the disadvantages of CSS?
Ans.
Disadvantages of CSS:
1)CSS, CSS 1 up to CSS3, result in creating of confusion among web browsers.
2) With CSS, what works with one browser might not always work with another. ...
3) There exists a scarcity of security.
4) After making the changes we need to confirm the compatibility if they appear.


Q.3 What is the difference between CSS2 and CSS3?
Ans.
CSS3 has compatibility with external font styles through google fonts and typecast. It was not possible with earlier CSS1 and CSS2. The selectors in CSS3 has increased while CSS1 and CSS2 only had simple selectors. CSS1 AND CSS2 didn't have provision to specifically design the web layout.


Q.4 Name a few CSS style components
Ans.
The components of css style are:
Selector: class name, id name or element name that is target.
Attribute: name of the attribute you want to style for example border, color,background, position etc.
Value of Property: value that will be assigned to attribute.


Q.5 What do you understand by CSS opacity?
Ans.
The opacity CSS property sets the opacity of an element. Opacity is the degree to which content behind an element is hidden, and is the opposite of transparency.


Q.6 How can the background color of an element be changed?
Ans.
To add background color in HTML, use the CSS background-color property. Set it to the color name or code you want and place it inside a style attribute. Then add this style attribute to an HTML element, like a table, heading, div, or span tag.


Q.7 How can image repetition of the backup be controlled?
Ans.
This task can be achieved by using the background-repeat property that will help us to control the repetition of the image. The background-repeat property in CSS is used to repeat the background image both horizontally and vertically. It also decides whether the background image will be repeated or not.


Q.8 What is the use of the background-position property?
Ans.
The background-position property sets the starting position of a background image. Tip: By default, a background-image is placed at the top-left corner of an element, and repeated both vertically and horizontally.


Q.9 Which property controls the image scroll in the background?
Ans.
The background-attachment property sets whether a background image scrolls with the rest of the page, or is fixed.


Q.10 Why should background and color be used as separate properties? 
Ans.
 Why background and color are the separate properties if they should always be set together? There are two reasons behind this: It enhances the legibility of style sheets. The background property is a complex property in CSS, and if it is combined with color, the complexity will further increase.


Q.11 How to center block elements using CSS1? 
Ans.
To centrally align the block elements, we can simply make use of the <center> tag. All the elements within the <center> tag will be centrally aligned.


Q.12 How to maintain the CSS specifications?
Ans.
The CSS specifications are maintained by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). Even though every browser supports CSS, there are many inconsistencies in the supported specification version. Some browsers even have their own implementation of the specification and have proprietary (vendor) prefixes.


Q.13 What are the ways to integrate CSS as a web page?
Ans.
CSS may be added to HTML in three different ways. To style a single HTML element on the page, use Inline CSS in a style attribute. By adding CSS to the head section of our HTML document, we can embed an internal stylesheet. We can also connect to an external stylesheet that separates our CSS from our HTML.


Q.14 What is embedded style sheets?
Ans.
Embedded Stylesheet: It allows you to define styles for a particular HTML document as a whole in one place. This is done by embedding the <style></style> tags containing the CSS properties in the head of your document.


Q15. What are the external style sheets?
Ans.
An external style sheet is a separate CSS file that can be accessed by creating a link within the head section of the webpage. Multiple webpages can use the same link to access the stylesheet. The link to an external style sheet is placed within the head section of the page.


Q.16 What are the advantages and disadvantages of using external style sheets?
Ans.
External style sheets have the following advantages over internal and inline styles:
1) one change to the style sheet will change all linked pages.
2) you can create classes of styles that can then be used on many different HTML elements.
3) consistent look and feel across multiple web pages.


Q.17 What is the meaning of the CSS selector? 
Ans.
What is a selector? A CSS selector is the first part of a CSS Rule. It is a pattern of elements and other terms that tell the browser which HTML elements should be selected to have the CSS property values inside the rule applied to them.


Q.18 What are the media types allowed by CSS? 
Ans. Sr.No.	Value & Description

       
       1        all
                Suitable for all devices.

       2        aural
                Intended for speech synthesizers.

       3	braille
                Intended for braille tactile feedback devices.

       4	embossed
                Intended for paged braille printers.

       5	handheld
                Intended for handheld devices (typically small screen, monochrome, limited bandwidth).

       6	print
                Intended for paged, opaque material and for documents viewed on screen in print preview mode.                         Please consult the section on paged media.

       7	projection
                Intended for projected presentations, for example projectors or print to transparencies. Please consult the section on paged media.

       8	screen
                Intended primarily for color computer screens.

       9	tty
                Intended for media using a fixed-pitch character grid, such as teletypes, terminals, or portable devices with limited display capabilities.

       10	tv
                Intended for television-type devices.


Q.19 What is the rule set?
Ans.
Definitions: A table of instructions used by a controlled interface to determine what data is allowable and how the data is handled between interconnected systems.







